Now before we continue let's get a really good understanding of the higher order component pattern and
how they work.
So the higher order component pattern is a very common pattern you see not only in react projects everywhere
but in the react ecosystem as a whole.
Lots of libraries essentially give you higher order components that allow you to provide your components
the functionality that that library brings.
So we saw that earlier with our with router hired a component and we'll see it a lot whenever we use
redux because redux provides us with a connect hired component.
By here we're going to explore what they do under the hood by writing our own.
And it's very easy.
So in order to understand it I've got this quick project here that you can download so that you can
follow along and all it has right now is just a simple user profile component that gets a name and an
email and then renders out an H1 and an H two of that name and email.
Now as we know components are essentially just functions and classes that receive some props right like
this name and this email property and then it returns us some markup in a similar manner a Haq or a
component is just a function that gets a component and returns us a new enhanced component.
So how do I mean by that.
Well in order to understand this we kind of have to see why we need higher order components in the first
place.
And the best way to do that is if we weren't given a task to let's say expand our user profile component
to also display some posts that belong to our user.
So how do we do that.
Well let's say we had to fetch some posts from back end.
Right.
Just like we did with our monsters rolodex.
We're gonna use this Jason Place holder site and we're going to pull down the posts.
So we are going to in our constructor for our component add a state.
Right.
Because we need to be able to display our posts.
So this does state will be equal to an object with the posts that has an empty array and then in our
component did mount lifecycle method.
We are going to fetch this data from this.
You are El and then we are going to make sure that our response is in Jason and now we're just going
to store our data as our posts so let's do this dot set state where are posts is equal to data and now
in order to log it we're just going to add this quickly into our component by mapping over this dot
state DOT posts and we are going to map over that and render out simple div with a class name of post.
So I have provided some very basic styles for us so that we can at least understand just what's going
on.
And inside is an H1 with our post dot title and a p tag that has our post body post up body and let's
not forget our key is going to be post I.D. And now if we look in our application we'll see that we
are rendering out these quick posts right now there's a lot of them.
So let's say we had to we only want to display three because this is way too much information.
We would just do a data dot splice or sorry dot slice from 0 to 3.
So we would slice out.
So these three awesome.
OK.
Now we have this component that fetches some data and then reduces the quantity of data that is being
displayed.
Right.
But what happens let's say if we wanted to do another component that does almost the same thing except
it displays a list of our users.
So we'll make a user list component profile and we'll do user list component J sex import react from
react and we'll do class User List extends react component and we'll do a very similar thing where we
will render out a very similar component that has a div and inside this div has a class name of container
which has some of the base styles but also this usually is class which just changes the background color
and lets say we just had an H one that said users list and let's export this as the default user list.
So now if we were to pull this into our app US opponents user list using its component and if we were
to just render this above our user profile list we would see our user list component now while we want
to do is we just want to display users in a similar format.
Right.
And in our user list we would do exactly the same thing that we had here except perhaps instead of posts
it would be users and then instead of posts let's just say we're fetching from this users end point
and then we just do this we set the users and now we map over this dot stage.
Users and we want to return a similar thing where it's just got the H1 he is equal to user I.D. and
we render user dot name and a H2 that says user dot email.
Also make this post just that we get that styling right.
OK so if we look at our components they're actually very similar.
Right.
They fetch from some data source you URL and then they just set the state so if we were to do this for
let's say five different components we would be writing the same code essentially five different times
like we already see that we had to write this code twice.
So what a hybrid a component can do for us is we can actually wrap this functionality inside of a function
and then when we pass the component it will return us a version of our component but modify to have
this code in it.
So how we would do that is we would make a new file called let's say with data dot J and all this does
is it returns a function so let's do let's just act from react
and we would declare a constant called with data which is you go to a function that takes a component
and then it returns class called with data which extends react component and inside of our component
we want to have this information we wanted to do this stuff that it was doing before and then inside
of our component we want this you are all to change depending on what we pass to it.
Right.
So what we can do is we can have that as the second argument as a data source and then we would just
change this over to data source and instead of posts because we don't know what it is we'll just put
it as data and now in our render statement we are going to return it's gonna be called wrapped component
actually.
Right.
Because the wrapped component is the component that is being wrapped in our with data component so we
are going to return the wrapped component where data is gonna be a property that we're passing in from
our state.
Right this dot state DOT data.
And then we're gonna give it any other props that might have been on our actual application.
This thing is what are with data returns.
It's gonna return with data and then we're going to export default with data.
Now when we look at this.
Right are with data as a function that takes any component and then some data source you URL and then
it returns us a new component that has this on it that then gives us our data from that data source
after it's been sliced right and fetched into our component as a data property.
So now if we look at our user profile we don't even need that code anymore and how we would use this
is instead of this dot data posts.
We would do this dot data because we know we're gonna get our posts in from our data and now in fact
I'm not even going to use a class component because now we can just use a functional component and it's
going to get the properties of data name and email
and let's just get rid of this so that we now know that what we're getting in is the data from our wrapped
component.
So how we would use it is we would import with data from our with data file and then we would wrap our
user profile in that and we would still export our user profile component out of our file the same way
except now it's gonna be what gets returned by passing our user profile into with data.
And then I gotta remember to pass that you url.
So let's just get that you are all again and this is our posts
and now we'll see that our code is still working here.
Right now if we were to do the exact same thing with our user list we would just import with data from
with data and then we don't need this anymore either
so we can also convert this over to a functional component
and then we know that we are going to get this users as our data and now instead of users we're just
going to map data and make sure to wrap our function with data and we just need to make sure to pass
in the same you are L except with users instead of post and if we check we see that we got the same
functionality except we are getting it without having to repeat our code.
We are passing into our with data our component right.
And then are with data is giving us back a enhanced component with some functionality.
And then we're just passing along that data into our component.
Now we can do this with all kinds of things.
I'm only using this data style of fetching because that's an example of what kind of higher or component
we can write but this kind of component structure is very versatile.
We can write all kinds of higher order components that do different things for us.
For example that with router higher or a component just passes in to our component access to those location
match and history objects right that we saw whenever we use that with router hired or component.
And just the similar are with data does exactly that.
We can even go a step further and have it so that if there's no data.
Right.
Like other functionalities we can do is we can have it so that if this dot state DOT data dot length
is less than 1 then I want to render the text loading otherwise I want to render an H1 that says loading.
So now if we refresh we see that it says loading and how we can see it's a little quick let's just do
this dot set time out for let's say one point five seconds and inside.
What do the fetch here this does justice at time see.
Both are loading and then when they're loaded right then it loads our component and we got that just
by modifying our higher order component.
So this is the main benefit of higher to components.
It lets us pass in a component do something to it or modify and give it these enhanced features and
then we can return it.
And we're always passing are all our props right that we get with our with data into our wrapped component
in case there are some props that we don't even use for our wrapped component.
Another way you can see that this is being done is if instead of doing our data source in our function
we want to pass it in as a prop.
So what we could do is we could do this job prop stored data source if we wanted to pass it in as a
prop instead so by doing that we actually are able to write our components like this.
So our user profile and our user list component instead of passing into our with data here wherever
we called it we would just pass that a prop so we would just do data source is equal to let's use this
you are.
So for user lists it'll be users and then for our user profile it'll be posts and if we look at our
application it still works the exact same way except now are with data a higher order component is using
this data source property in order to get the URL from where it fetches the data.
The great thing about this pattern as well is that our wrap components still gets all of the props that
it needs which is how our user profile component is still getting name and email because we are spreading
all of the props that this with data component is receiving.
So even though an app J.S. we are passing in a data source and an email name and email.
And even though our component only uses the data source we pass all those other props that we don't
want into our wrapped component.
So this is a key step that we got to do in every single higher order component pattern that we write.
But another thing we can do is that because we don't need to pass our data source property into our
rap component we can actually strip it out and to do so we would just structure out our data source
right and then spread everything else into and other props constant which we pull from this dot props
and now instead of spreading in this dot props we spread in other props and now our apps still works
except it's cleaner.
So this pattern of higher order components is very key and it's simple now it's functionality like how
we can use it to do what is definitely complex right.
It takes practice looking at your code and thinking about what is worth pulling out into a higher order
component but the concept is hopefully very simple as I'm hoping that I've shown it's just a function
that takes a component and then returns a new component that has additional functionality on it that
renders out our original component that we gave to it.